Spacely Sprockets

OUR COMPANY

[OPTIONAL img: ed_white_sm.jpg, redstone_sm.jpg]

In 1952, Spacely Sprockets began business when Cosmo G. Spacely realized there was an ongoing need for top quality sprockets across the galaxy. He began his manufacturing business in Chicago, Illinois in 1953 and outdistanced his closest competitor, Cogswell's Cosmic Cogs in a very short time.

Spacely Sprockets is proud to have partnered with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) since its formation in 1958. Our sprockets and gears have been the choice of astronautical engineers for years and were part of NASA's earliest projects, including Mercury 3, which carried the first American, Alan Shepard, into space.

Other products which played essential roles in man's exploration of space include:

- Alpha 3: Engineers used this sprocket for reinforcement on a re-configured Mercury-Redstone capsule hatch for John Glenn's first orbit around the Earth.
Gamma 4: This cog was used in the deployment and retraction of astronaut Edward White during his the first spacewalk by an American.

- Iota 1: Constructed from a state-of-the-art titanium-molybendum alloy, this sprocket was used in the docking mechanism during Gemini and Apollo1 flights.

- Epsilon 11: Our tiniest cogs made it to another celestial body as part of the Passive Seismic Experiment Package deployed following the Apollo 11 moon landing.

- Upsilon 8: Astronauts used a spare of this sprocket in fixing the Command Module's carbon scrubber during the failed Apollo 13 mission. We worked with NASA engineers in developing a solution to save the lives of James Lovell, John Swigert and Fred Haise.

Our products, made of the highest quality materials and built-to-last, have also been featured in thousands of consumer products as well, with the most recent examples being the Segway, Toyota Prius and Apple iPod.

After reaching the pinnacle of success and opening a second factory in Lost Springs, Wyoming, Spacely took on a new challenge and began issuing certifications for sprocket constructors. These efforts soon evolved into the training establishment, CG Technologies that continues today, some 50 years on.


[small text ... it's a side note, jabbing the competition :> ]

1 Our sprockets were not used on Apollo 1. Cogswell's Cosmic Cogs won the bidding process to provide materials for this mission. NASA cancelled its contract with Cosmic Cogs. We provided sprockets and cogs for the subsequent missions.
